Hello everyone and welcome to the recursion homework example problem section.
So in this section you're going to have a homework assignment where you'll have to fill out some simple
example problems using recursion.
So let's go ahead and do a quick overview of what the problems look like in the attached notebook.
Let's go ahead and jump to that notebook now.
OK.
So as always you can find the junior notebooks on the links and be viewer links or hub as well.
So in this case we'll be looking at the recursion homework example problems notebook.
Note there's a solutions notebook.
So be careful not to click on that before you've had a go at the example problems yourself in this video
.
We're just going to quickly explain what the recursion homework problems are looking for.
You can go ahead and just skip this video and read along for yourself.
Everything's in the notebook.
But in this video I'll just explain what the problems asking for for any clarification.
Problem one.
Let's go ahead and zoom in on it says write a recursive function which takes an integer and computes
the cumulative sum of zero to that integer.
So for example if your input equals for what I want you to do is return four plus three plus two plus
1 0 which is 10 C function should return 10.
So this is really similar to that factorial problem.
But instead of multiplying we're adding.
So hopefully this should be a simple introduction and follow along with the base case thinking that
we did when we were creating that factorial problem.
And here's a cell for you to fill out.
Def rec sum are recursion some of a past statement there for you to fill out.
Problem 2 says given an integer create a function which returns the sum of all the individual digits
in that integer.
For example if N equals four thousand three hundred twenty one.
What I wanted to do is return four plus three plus two plus one.
So this might be a little confusing.
So let me go out and break it down for you what you're going to do is given any integer you're going
to break it up first into individual parts and then add up each of those individual digits.
So you're not doing what you did here in problem 1.
Instead you're going to be splitting up that digit itself into individual digits.
So how do you do that recursively.
This is pretty tricky.
So I've set up two hints for you.
The first hint is that you have to use maade and I left you a hint here that 4000 321 mod 10 will return
one.
The second hints I gave you.
Is that 1321 single digit divided by 10 is 432 excuse me.
Single slash divided by 10.
So you'll have to do is in order to think of this function recursively know that this equation is what
it's going to look like for your recursive case.
So these are pretty strong hints here.
Go ahead and think about them as you build out your function.
Let's move along to Problem 3 now Problem 3 is probably a more advanced problem than the previous two
.
And it also has a lot of variation and possibilities and it can be asked in a lot of different ways
so we're going to ignore the strict requirements here and what the question asks for is to create a
function called word underscore split.
So that's this function right here and it's going to take in a string phrase and a set list of words
.
And what I want you to make the function do is the function will determine if it's possible to split
the string in a way in which words can be made from the list of words and you can assume the phrase
will only contain words found in the dictionary.
If it's completely split.
So for example the function should be able to take in a string like this.
The man ran all one word in the string taken a list of words.
The Rand man and then recursively check if it's able to splits that string and output the words that
were in the dictionary.
Another example is I love dogs John.
All one string one giant word.
And here we have a dictionary or a list of words.
Excuse me a list not a dictionary.
A list of words that says I am a dog's lover love John.
So has a bunch of words and what I want to do is recursively check if you can split up this string into
words found in that list of words right here.
So I love dogs John.
The last one is an example of something failing.
So the man ran.
Here we have a list of clown ran and man.
Know notice that the function is not able to split this up into words that are all in the dictionary
.
Since this the phrase is not in the dictionary or anything else that is attached to science only clown
Rain Man so returns an empty list.
Go ahead and take your time with this one.
If you're confused or a little stuck then go ahead and check out the solution.
Notebook.
OK so that's it for this video.
Remember this notebook.
If you go to Jupiter and the viewer or the home page it's called the recursion homework example problems
.
The Python notebook and as always it's under the recursion folder for this course.
OK everyone.
Best of luck on the homework assignment.
Feel free to check out the solutions if you get stuck in the next video.
I'll be briefly going over the solutions.
All right I'll see you at the next lecture.